Womack How is this exercise.
Let's go step by step and see how your answers match up.
First one sort.
Ten schools around your house by distance.
So the input is only 10.
It's fairly small.
We need something simple.
In this case I'll probably use insertion sort.
It's really fast on small sorts.
It's easy to code and it has space complexity of of one.
It also could be that these 10 schools are already presorted or nearly sorted on our list.
So insertion is just the simplest for this type of small data.
I like insertion sort for this type of things.
What about this one.
This one's a tough one ebay sorts of listings on their Web site by the current bid amount.
So what would you use for this wall for this.
I would actually use something like radix or counting sort because well a bid is usually a number between
let's say $1 to let's say 50000.
Probably even less.
When it comes to payment on eBay let's say $1 to $100.
These are numbers that need to be sorted.
Right.
And because it's a fixed length of integers.
Integers are most likely not going to be a hundred million because well hopefully nobody's bidding that
much on eBay.
So how do you use radix or counting sort to beat that.
All of and log and time knowing that the bids are always going to be number within a certain range.
What about that sort.
Sports scores on ESPN sports scores can vary.
There's decimal places sometimes there's there's different formats such as tennis and soccer and different
things and there's definitely lots of sports and lots of scores to handle.
In this case I'm going to use quick sort.
It's going to be the most efficient and although we might have the worst case I doubt that the scores
are going to be sorted because there are just so many different kinds.
But I'm also worried about in-memory sorting.
So if I used Myrt sort it might be a little too much for this because of our increase space complexity
versus quicksort which if you remember has better space complexity.
And by the way you might have your own answer for this.
Maybe you thought that the sports scores on ESPN will be they input's would be a little bit different.
You could you can have your different types of answers.
The idea here in an interview situation is to explain yourself and if you know the principles then they
interview your is going to say oh he or she knows what they're talking about.
Number four massive database so we can fill all this data into memory to sort it.
So we probably need to sort it out externally and let's say we need to sort through past years user
data.
So it's a ton of data and we need to sort it somehow let's say by some sort of a date.
What based on the information that I got here it sounds like I need to do something called
Mertz or my favorite type of sorting.
And the reason I would pick this is because well it sounds that we're now going to be starting really
in memory because the data is so big but because the data is so big I'm really worried about the performance.
I don't want the worst case of quicksort of all and squared.
I want to make sure that no matter what I'm going to get all of and log in.
What about the fifth one.
There is an almost sorted you Danny review data that needs to update and add two new reviews.
So we have a massive list of your reviews.
Let's say that you raided the course and this score say you're taking has 500 reviews and you've added
you and your friend just added two new reviews to the scores.
In this case I'm going to use insertion sort.
And why is that well.
Although this data might be huge and maybe I have a lot of reviews.
I'm assuming that most of the previous data is already sorted and all I'm doing is adding two new reviews
to this data.
Insertion sort for pre ordered lists is going to work better than any other type presorted.
Number six temperature records for the past 50 years in Canada.
Oh boy what should we do with this one.
And this is a little tricky.
I would say that our First I would use something like radix or counting sort if the temperatures have
no decimal places.
If we're saying you know it's minus 30 to let's say 40 degrees that's a integer number between a small
range down my workwell but if I want to sort through data that also has maybe temperatures that are
really accurate and have decimal places which you can do with radix or counting sort then I'm probably
going to use quick sort again just so we can do some in memory sorting and hopefully save on that space
complexity.
All right last to larger user name database or large user named database needs to be sorted.
Data is very very random.
All right so we have a user named database that needs to be sorted.
I'm not really sure I don't have enough information to make a decision here.
Maybe I would use merge sort if we have enough memory and memory isn't too expensive on the machine.
Or maybe I'll use quicksort if I'm not too worried about worst case and that the user name databases
that large.
Maybe I'll just use quicksort just to save memory space and then finally number 8.
You want to teach sir sorting for the first time so is a little fun question.
I said the bubble sort just so I can add bubble sort to this list and selection sort.
Hate.
Hopefully you had fun with these questions.
Sorting algorithms.
This is probably the finest I can get it.
Actually no I like the Hungarian dancing too sorting is the fun as you can have with sorting but I hope
you have a good idea of how to answer these questions when they come to the interview.
I'll see in the next video.
Babay.